
TP1 (Work Assignment #1): hjUDPProxy

hjUDPproxy is an implementation of a simple and transparent UDP proxy.
It can be used for UDP and IP Multicast proxyig.
The parameterization for the hjUDPproxy operation must be in the
configuration file: config.properties.

hjUDPproxy is provided for students of the SRSC course as a starting
component for the requirements of the Work-Assignmet #1 (WA#1).

hjUDPproxy can be used as a proxym providing address-port translation
(as a very simple NAT facility).

Compilation
-----------
hjUDPproxy is ready for compilation and for testing.
The revised code was tested for Java 8 (but I believe it is ready for
the more recent versions). In this code distribution we are not using 
packaging, but students are free to re-organize the code in their
WA#1 project packages. Anyway, it must be used as a standalone program.

Runtime
-------
According to the configuration, and depending of the use of unicast or
multicast addresses, the program must be started with the required
runtime options to use the IPv4 Stack - particularly for the case of
proxying involving IPv4 multicast addresses in the configuration and
for computers that support the dual IP stack (IPv4 and IPv6).
This is not relevant when used for IP unicast addresses.

This can be done by using the program in the following way:

Option 1: use the -D flag (properties) in the following way 
to execute the program:
java -Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true hjUDPproxy

This forces java (and JVM) to use the IPv4 Stack.

Option 2: we can also force the above property by adding the
property in the program (compile time):

See:
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Properties.html


Configuration
--------------
The configuration of endpoints for the proxy is established by
the config.properties in a very simlpe way. Addresses and ports 
are configured in the following way (the minimum configuration to
use the proxy for the requirements of WA#1:

<endpoint>: <ip-address>:<port>

<endpoint> can be: 
   remote: the endpoint where the proxy receives outbound traffic
   localdelivery: the endpoint where the proxy delivers inbound traffic

For WA#1 the proxy will be used to proxy traffic sent from the outbound
environment (ex., Internet) to be forwared to an inbound environment
(ex., a LAN using IP proivate adderssing).

for ip-addresses is possible to use IP-Unicast or IP-Multicast addresses.

Configuration Examples:
-----------------------

Example 1:

IP forwarding of UDP traffic (IP unicast) received in localhost 
(or 127.0.0.1) port 9999, to be translated and delivered as IP multicast
traffic to the multicast group 224.2.2.2 o port 7777. 
This works as network translation from a public enviornment to
local Multicast groups (for example running in a private LAN)

localdelivery:224.2.2.2:7777
remote:localhost:9999


Example 2:

Local transparent port translation of UDP (IP unicast) traffic

localdelivery:localhost:7777
remote:localhost:9999

Example 3:

IP forwarding of UDP traffic (IP mtulticast) received in localhost 
and sent from a multicast sender using the group 238.24.24.10 and port 9999,
to be translated and delivered as IP multicast
traffic to a local multicast group 224.10.10.10, port 9876. 
This works as multicast and port translation, used for example as a gateway
between two multicast groups.

localdelivery:224.10.10.10:9876
remote:238.24.24.10:9999
















